TODO:

* integrate something like quil or jme3 with datomic and clojure (preferably jme3 or 3D something)

  possibly start with 2D ? then evolve to 3D?
  but just in case something fails with 3D it should fall back to 2D and if something fails with 2D should fall 
   back to swing and if swing fails should fallback to console or something, but the point is, if an exception or a bunch
   need to be shown/reported, they should be reported in this order on the thing that is still "alive" while the thing on 
   top of it clearly failed. However the thing here is, some exception may be reported on ie. 2D but then after like under 
   1 sec the 2D may fail and that exception is lost(imagine 2D screen would close upon fail) and the swing part would report
   the reason why 2D failed, but not the reason why 3D failed(which was reported in 2D), so must find a way to maybe carry
   over the exceptions to the lower level even though they might've been displayed on the higher level, however, we don't
   want the exceptions to be duplicated on all lower levels(swing+console in this case) while the 
   higher level(2D in this case) is still "alive".
  So it would be really good to can upgrade some instance of a class(or something) from console, to swing, to 2D, to 3D
   such that if any of the latter upgrades fail, it would fall back to previous.(I remember I couldn't do it in java)
   
  
* using datomic eventually, but maybe it's not a bad idea to use some text-base database, such that maybe we can use it
to store lists such as this TODO list, so they're easily uploadable on github as opposed to being in a different place, for 
example, I'd use trello for this, but it's in a different place than github (even tho there is some automation that can be
done between the two). So maybe start small(er) and have something simple like in swing lists and moving things around and
have them persist on some text files that are playing nice with git ie. one element per line.
 Actually if I think about it here, starting from a flat-file database and upgrading (at runtime obviously) to a db like 
datomic, while supporting fails so that for example, I start by adding some stuff to flat-file db then datomic stuff gets 
inited and all that stuff I added should also be added to datomic db so that each would be independent, hmm, and if datomic
crashes, then all that was added to datomic would be added to the flat-text file... but in fact this would be different than
the point above (the prev star * with the exceptions), because I'd literally have to duplicate(replicate) all writes to both
flat-file and datomic, in order to be sure this fall-back would work okay in case something excepts in my datomic code 
implementation.
  
* whenever is worth it, try using travis http://travis-ci.org/ to automate building demlinks
	check this: https://travis-ci.org/technomancy/leiningen
	
	
* investigate how to use this idea of watchers on refs in clojure to be able to do something like dependencies early on

* check out this Date and defmethod thing here: http://briancarper.net/blog/456/


