The problem of parallel serials =)
Basically executing many serial modifications in parallel, while keeping state consistency.
I guess consistent from the point of view of the running programs, like logically consistent?
or semantically consitent or wtw 

Threads supposedly execute commands serially(even if they do goto/call)

Assuming only word "theatre" already exists in dictionary held by 'words' class

Attempting to craftfully run the following two threads 'at the same time' 

thread1:
cmd1411: someclass.somemethod(someparams);
cmd1412: words.remove("theatre");
cmd1413: word.add("something");


thread2:
cmd130:system.out.println("something");
cmd131:words.add("themes");
cmd132:otherclass.do(something);


Here's what the 'only' CPU will see/execute (that is one executor executing one cmd at a time, 
serially):
Continuing from thread1 being next and cmd1412, then thread2 and cmd131....
* signals cmds seen by the CPU

timeline:
* thread1: words.remove("theatre"); <- one cmd
CPU will add/append to class 'words' execution queue the following cmd: 
	cmd0: remove("theatre");
at this time since class 'words' has more than 0 commands in queue, it will be added to thread 
queue, that is, it's considered like being a thread (will be executed last, ie. append to 
thread exec queue)
and CPU will move on to next thread (or will go deep at this time, inside remove cmd)

* thread2: words.add("themes");
CPU will append to class 'words' exec queue the following command: 
	cmd1: add("themes");
and since it was already added to thread queue it won't do it again

* 'words' class: cmd0: remove("theatre");
this command would unlink each char from the word and delete it (supposedly)
ie. "theatre"->{t,h,e,a,t,r,e} (initially)
			cmd0: del "t"
			cmd1: del "h"
			cmd2: del "e"
			cmd3: del "a"
			cmd4: del "t"
			cmd5: del "r"
			cmd6: del "e"
			cmd7: delparent "theatre" 
			cmd8: implied return/end parent command (such that this will unlink this thread from 
					thread exec queue and eventually empty the queue; well actually not empty it
					but move the Instruction Pointer at the end so the queue will seem to be empty) 

But of this thread, only cmd0 will/should be added to wtw new thread such that CPU will execute only 
ie. cmd0 before moving on to next thread
	
	
	SO basicly, operations on a class will be queued on that class's own exec queue. So they will be
	executed sequentially by the class. Ie. no two class methods will be called at the same time
	such that any two or more threads can find themselves inside the same class' methods at the same
	time. Like: if thread 1 is executing str.append("something") for 10 minutes and thread2 wanted
	str.append("nothing") 3 minutes ago, this means thread2 will wait for thread1 to finish executing.
	Notice that str is an instance of a class of ie. String. So since it's the same variable(or instance)
	that's why the threads will serialize their operations on this instance. Yeah above where I said
	class, I ment instance. Like if there were str1 and str2 , two different instances of class String
	each accessed by different threads, they can go concurently in same methods but will probably use
	same method of queueing the operations on them even if in this case it will be only one queued 
	operation at any given time whilst for str variable above there were two queue operations and the
	second operation from thread2 was waiting to execute.
	
Of course another variant would be to act like cvs/svn/git on that instance. Ie. on str instance
above thread1 would execute the append method thus having a new revision on str while at the same
time thread2 (without waiting for thread2) would execute its append method on another new revision
of str and finally assuming thread1 finishes first , will commit new str revision and when thread2
finishes and wants to commit, it may do so with or without conflicts, but if no conflicts then all
is well and move on. But if conflicts then thread2 may just drop the append changes to str that it
just did and reexecute the same append again but not before getting the new str revision that thread1
commited. However here may be a situation, since getting new str from server(so to speak) would mean
any use of str in thread2 before the append method call would have to be reexecuted using the str
revision we just got from the server(the thread1 revision that is) hence maybe if a time in thread2
is available where we know when thread2 accessed str for the first time, we would undo all commands
until then, and pull new str from server and redo all commands in thread2 again until and including
the append. Or even better would be such that thread2 executions on str would be connected in a way
such that if str would somehow change(ie. on commit from thread1) then the dependencies in thread2
code that just ran on the old str will update considering the new str, somehow like reexecuting 
everything that thread2 did on old str, but on new str, except doing only the necessary commands(like
some commands may do changes to other vars which don't directly/indirectly change with the new str
so they remain the same as when str was old str).
So consistency in thread commands/vars would be wanted. That means many On events (ie. OnChange)
  
